# Recruitment-Management-System
Project for CS 546 Web Programming at Stevens Institute of Technology. 
We did a lot of pair-programming to finish this project.

Step 1: `npm install` to install the neccessary modules 

Step 2: Seed the database
Run the following command: 
```
    node tasks/seed.js
    ctrl + c
```

The collections "users" and "jobDescription" would be populated by running the above command.

In our new databases, we got rid of Applicant DB and merged it into our users db, while adding a new db called jobsAndDocs and applicantDocuments.
```
    users: {
   “_id”: Unique Id
    "userType": "employer/applicant to differentiate",
    "username": "username with constraints",
    "email": "validated email",
    "password": "password in *** (for UI) and in letters for mongoDB"
    "firstName": "applicant's first name"
    "lastName": "applicant's last name"
    "phoneNumber": "applicant's phone number"
    }
```

```
    jobsAndDocs: {
    "userId": "Applicant's Id"
    "jobId": "Array of documents Ids"
```
In this applicationDocuments collection, the filename cannot be hashed due to the library (archiver) we are using to download all the documents as a zip. Archiver uses the original file name. Also as discussed, please only upload .doc .docx. and .pdf files, there is no backend code that restricts the uploads of other file types. Uploading files of other extensions wouldn't break the code though!

Also, a side note: do not use the same file twice to upload for the same application i.e.John uploading file1 as resume and file1 as cover letter for the same job A. Another applicant Sam can use the same file1 in his application for job A, not an issue! (but again not the same file1 twice for the same job A by Sam)

An applicant can apply for the same job multiple times, but the recruiter would only see the most recent documents/application from the applicant. If John applies for Job A twice, the recruiter will see that John has applied twice, but will have access to only the most recently uploaded documents and not the previous ones!
```
    applicantDocuemnts.files: {
        "uploadDate": "Applicant Submission Time"
        "filename": "documents"
        "contentType": "application and what the document type they submitted"
        "metadata": "extra comments"
    }
```

The collection "application" cannot be populated because it contains the fields, "userId" and "jobId" which are generated by MongoDB in the collections "users" and "jobDescription" respectively. 

The collection jobsAndDocs cannot be populated because it contains the fields, "userId","jobId" (the actual jobId as key) and "documentID"(array of actual documentID as value of the object having the actual jobID as key) which is again generated by MongoDB in the collections "users" and "jobDescription" respectively. Whenever an applicant submits an application, "jobsAndDocs" collection is created.

The applicantDocument has two collections, "files"(applicantDocuments.files) and "chunks"(applicantDocuments.chunks) which is generated by gridFS which is a library in node.js. These collections are generated when a user uploads any documents.

Step 3: Run the web application
Run the following command: `npm start` OR `node app.js`

Step 4: Log in as an applicant and apply for a job
To login as an applicant:
```
    username:    john123
    password:    john@123
```

Step 5: Log in as a recruiter and either post a job or view applications
To login as a recruiter:
```
    username:   mohit123
    password:    mohit@123
```

#Features
1. Candidate Login
2. Recruiter Login
3. Job Posting
4. Application Submission
5. Viewing Application
6. Application Status

#Group Members
- Mohit Bhagchandani
- Mana Satra
- Zhang Peng
- Christina Li
- Ekaterina Bevinova


